In this lecture I'm going to explain
the cert-manger.
I'm going to show you how to issue certificates
for your apps and your websites.
If you want to use a secure http connection, https,
you need to have certificates.
Those certificates can be bought or they can also be issued
by some public cloud providers like AWS.
They have the Certificate Manager,
where they can issue certificates for you and manage those.
Managing SSL and TLS certificates yourself
often takes a lot of time
and they are time consuming to install and extend.
So those certificates are only valid
for a certain amount of time,
so you need to request those from a provider
that provides TLS certificates
and then you'll also need to extend them when they expire.
In the past, we would get SSL certificates,
now you get TLS certificates.
You will see everywhere still SSL,
but technically it's now a TLS certificates.
You can also not issue your own certificates
for production websites,
as they are not trusted by the common internet browsers.
Like if you would issue your own certificate,
you can sign your own certificate,
it would just not work in Chrome or Internet Explorer
because they will say "I don't recognize this authority
that signed this certificate".
So, you need to go to a company
that is listed in the browser.
There are lots of different companies listed
that can issue a certificate for you.
Cert-manager can ease the issuing of certificates
and the management of it.
That's what I'm going to explain now.
Cert-manager is a component that you can install
in the Kubernetes and it will help you issuing certificates,
because we don't have something
like the AWS certificate manager.
We have to manage them ourselves.
Cert-manager can us Let's encrypt.
Let's encrypt is a free,
automated and open Certificate Authority.
This definition comes from the Let's encrypt website,
which is letsencrypt.org.
Let's encrypt can issue certificates for free
for your apps and websites.
You'll need to prove to Let's encrypt
that you are the owner of the domain.
After that, they will issue a certificate for you.
So this is the verification process
that they will do to verify
whether you are the owner of a domain name.
And only then when you can prove that,
they will issue a certificate.
The certificate is then recognized
by major software vendors and browsers.
So even though it's free,
because most of the url providers are bait,
even though it's free, it is still recognized.
So then you can use Let's encrypt
to issue you a free certificate.
So Cert-manager can automate the verification process
for Let's encrypt.
So, Let's encrypt has this verification process
to check whether you are really the owner of this domain.
Cert-manager and Kubernetes can then automate
this verification process.
With Let's encrypt, you'll also have to renew certificates
every couple of months,
because those certificates also expire.
Cert-manager will therefore periodically check the validity
of the certificates and will start the renewal process,
if necessary.
So, Cert-manager will then open the certificate
that's almost going to expire in the last month,
then it will issue a renewal automatically for you.
Let's encrypt, in combination with Cert-manager,
takes away all of the hassle to deal with certificates,
allowing you to secure your endpoints
in an easy and affordable way.
You can only issue certificates for a domain name you own.
You'll need a domain name like xyz.com.
If you were using a domain name to bring up your cluster
for my first Kubernetes course,
which is called the Complete Kubernetes Course,
you can then reuse this domain.
So, if you were using cups,
you issued the domain or used the domain,
you can actually reuse this domain now
to create an SSL certificate.
Otherwise, if you don't have domain name yet,
you can get one for free from dot.tk or other providers.
Or, you can buy one through namecheap.com,
which I am using,
AWS route53 or any other provider that sells domain names.
As long as you can change the DNS records
of the domain name, any provider is fine.
Less popular extensions only cost a few dollars,
so if it doesn't really matter
what extension you're going to buy,
then .co or other extensions,
they often do promotions and they only cost a few dollars.
So then this is the architecture overview
of the Cert-manager.
So we have the Cert-manager in the middle in green,
and then we have the issuers letsencrypt-staging,
letsencrypt-prod,
which we are going to create in the next demo.
Those are the issuers.
Those are the objects that describe that we are going
to reuse Let's encrypt,
the staging gateway or production gateway,
and we can use those issuers then in the certificates.
So the certificates here are in blue.
We can then say we need for domain foo.bar.com,
we need a certificate and the issuer is going to be
Let's encrypt staging.
Then we have a real domain name, example.com,
and here we can say Let's encrypt prod.
You are rate limited on the production API
of Let's encrypt, but not on the staging one.
So, it's best to test first with the staging one.
If everything goes okay,
then you can issue a real certificate
using the Let's encrypt prod.
Once the certificates are issued,
they are stored in Kubernetes Secrets
that you see here at the bottom.
So then you have the signed keypair,
the issued keypair that you need,
and those are then saved in the Secrets
and then can be used by the incas controller.
In the next lecture, in the demo,
I will exactly show you how to issue a certificate
using the Cert-manager.